Create remote git component from git module (#6073)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/remote.git.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
canonical: gits://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
description: Learn about remote.git
title: remote.git
---

# remote.git

`remote.git` retrieves the content of file stored in a git repository and exposes it to other components. The repo

> is polled for changes so that the most recent content is always available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is polled for changes so that the most recent content is eventually available.
```

## Usage

```river
remote.git "LABEL" {
  repository = "GIT_REPOSITORY"
  path       = "PATH_TO_FILE"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`repository` | `string` | The Git repository address to retrieve the content from. | | yes
`revision` | `string` | The Git revision to retrieve the content from. | `"HEAD"` | no
`path` | `string` | The path in the repository where the content is stored. | | yes
`pull_frequency` | `duration` | The frequency to pull the repository for updates. | `"60s"` | no

The `repository` attribute must be set to a repository address that would be
recognized by Git with a `git clone REPOSITORY_ADDRESS` command, such as

> `htts://github.com/grafana/agent.git`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`https://github.com/grafana/agent.git`.
```

We should probably also use `git` protocol URL to be super clear.

The `revision` attribute, when provided, must be set to a valid branch, tag, or
commit SHA within the repository.

The `path` attribute must be set to a path which is accessible from the root of

> the repository, such as `FILE_NAME.river` or `FOLDER_NAME/FILE_NAME.river`.

Reviewer 2: (Haven't read the code yet, apologies, but could be worth adding here).

What happens when the path or revision are invalid? Does the component error out and exit the Agent on startup? Will it retry at the specified interval? If the component does run, is the content Export left empty or null?

Author: If the agent does not have a local copy of the repo corresponding to the config in the river file, then it will error out and exit. Else, it will use the local copy content and mark itself as unhealthy because it could not update it with the latest content

> If `pull_frequency` is not `"0s"`, the Git repository will be pulled for

Reviewer 3: Should we add something here about how pulling hosted git repositories too often can result in throttling? This is a pitfall several folks have run into.

Author: good idea, I added a warning in this doc and in the module doc

> updates at the frequency specified.

Reviewer: If it is `0s`, will it be pulled once only? or never?

Author: it is pulled once

Reviewer: sorry, I wasn't asking for an answer, I wanted to suggest adding this to docs

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
canonical: gits://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/remote.git/
description: Learn about remote.git
title: remote.git
---

# remote.git

> `remote.git` retrieves the content of file stored in a git repository and exposes it to other components. The repo

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`remote.git` retrieves the content of a file stored in a Git repository and exposes it to other components. The repository
```

is polled for changes so that the most recent content is eventually available.

## Usage

```river
remote.git "LABEL" {
  repository = "GIT_REPOSITORY"
  path       = "PATH_TO_FILE"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`repository` | `string` | The Git repository address to retrieve the content from. | | yes
`revision` | `string` | The Git revision to retrieve the content from. | `"HEAD"` | no
`path` | `string` | The path in the repository where the content is stored. | | yes
`pull_frequency` | `duration` | The frequency to pull the repository for updates. | `"60s"` | no

> The `repository` attribute must be set to a repository address that would be
> recognized by Git with a `git clone REPOSITORY_ADDRESS` command, such as
> `https://github.com/grafana/agent.git`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You must set the `repository` attribute to a repository address that Git would recognize
with a `git clone REPOSITORY_ADDRESS` command, such as `https://github.com/grafana/agent.git`.
```

> The `revision` attribute, when provided, must be set to a valid branch, tag, or
> commit SHA within the repository.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When provided, the `revision` attribute must be set to a valid branch, tag, or
commit SHA within the repository.
```

> The `path` attribute must be set to a path which is accessible from the root of
> the repository, such as `FILE_NAME.river` or `FOLDER_NAME/FILE_NAME.river`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You must set the `path` attribute to a path accessible from the repository's root,
such as `FILE_NAME.river` or `FOLDER_NAME/FILE_NAME.river`.
```

> If `pull_frequency` is not `"0s"`, the Git repository will be pulled for

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If `pull_frequency` is not `"0s"`, the Git repository is pulled for
```

> updates at the frequency specified. If it is set to `"0s"`, the Git repository will be pulled once on init.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
updates at the frequency specified. If it is set to `"0s"`, the Git repository is pulled once on init.
```

> **_WARNING:_** Pulling hosted git repositories too often can result in throttling.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="warning" %}}
Pulling hosted Git repositories too often can result in throttling.
{{% /admonition %}}
```
